Week 1 Day 3 post and banner (#88)
Azure/Cloud-Native: website/blog-cnny/2023-01-25/30days.md

 * Introduction
 * What is Kubernetes? (Video)
 * How does Kubernetes Work? (Video)
 * Conclusion

![](./../../static/img/cnny23/hero-banner.png)

---

:::tip REGISTER & LEARN: KUBERNETES 101

Interested in a dive into Kubernetes and a chance to talk to experts? 

🎙: Join us **Jan 26 @1pm PST** 
[by registering here](https://info.microsoft.com/ww-landing-a-quickstart-guide-to-kubernetes-concepts.html?WT.mc_id=containers-84290-stmuraws)

Here's what you will learn:
 * Key concepts and core principles of Kubernetes.
 * How to deploy, scale and manage containerized workloads.
 * Live Demo of the concepts explained
 * How to get started with Azure Kubernetes Service for free.

**Start your free Azure Kubernetes Trial Today!!**: [aka.ms/TryAKS](https://aka.ms/TryAKS)

:::

## Introduction

Kubernetes is an open source container orchestration engine that can help with automated deployment, scaling, and management of our applications.

Kubernetes takes physical (or virtual) resources and provides a consistent API over them, bringing a consistency to the management and runtime experience for our applications.  Kubernetes provides us with a number of capabilities such as:

> 

Reviewer: Should we include "Container scheduling" here as well?

Author: Done

* Service discovery and load balancing
* Storage orchestration
* Automated rollouts and rollbacks
* Automatic bin packing
* Self-healing
* Secret and configuration management

We'll learn more about most of these topics as we progress through Cloud Native New Year.

## What is Kubernetes?

> Let's hear from Brendan Burns, one of the creators of Kubernetes as to what Kubernetes actually is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's hear from Brendan Burns, one of the founders of Kubernetes as to what Kubernetes actually is.
```

Reviewer: just to keep the "title" consistent with the video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/q1PcAawa4Bg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## How does Kubernetes Work?

And Brendan shares a bit more with us about how Kubernetes works.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/daVUONZqn88" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Conclusion

Kubernetes allows us to deploy and manage our applications effectively and consistently. 

> By providing a consistent API across many of the concerns our applications have, like load balancers, networking, storage, and compute, Kubernetes improves both our ability to build new software. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By providing a consistent API across many of the concerns our applications have, like load balancing, networking, storage, and compute, Kubernetes improves both our ability to build and ship new software. 
```
